---
layout: post
title: "Internet of Problems"
date: 2018-03-16 17:44:13
categories: misc
---

For a while now, it's considered to be progressive, wise and plain old cool to
blame the internets for all the problems. The fact that it became cool can be
partly explained by the fact that internet *is* the mainstream today (unlike the
days when it was most loudly criticized by conservatively-minded people), so
criticizing it gives you coolness points.

<cut/>

Many self-proclaimed (sic!) scientists do statistically-proved researches that
heavy internet usage and smartphones make people nervous, detached and lonely.
Many more internet-users repost these with their own comments and success
stories.

And then some go as far as too blame internets for all the problems of today
humanity. But if you dig through history, you'll see the same things said about
many other things. Come on, *we've been degrading for thousands years since the
golden age*.

Internets make people nervous. Yeah, that's true. If you use them to get the new
dose of invaluable information every time you're bored, it's going to make you
nervous. But what about newspapers, telephone, telegraph, radio and tv? If you
wanted to be surrounded by the constant flow of the most important information
all the time, you could do it before. The main difference with internets is that
they let you choose much more options than before.

Internets make people detached and lonely. Yeah, all right. If you try to be
communicating all the time, that's going to make you lonely. If you're not ready
to disclose your life, but still do, that's going to make you depressed. But if
that was your goal, you could find the means to implement that in earlier ages
too.

It can be argued that internets brought all of that down on the unsuspecting
public, but the truth is that the so-called "unsuspecting public" have always
had something brought upon it. Are internets worse than tv? Is tv worse than
being illiterate slave?

Really, it's not internets who kill people. It's still mostly other humans who
do that. *They* are inventing and firing guns, *they* are creating and ordering
killer drones, *they* are threatening nuclear wars, *they* are making internets
and then call them evil, trying to get more money from you by selling anti-net
devices, apps and life styles. All of this is done by filthy adult humans who
haven't really changed as much as marketologists like you to think.
