---
layout: post
title: "VHEMT site review"
date: 2018-03-07 21:21:42
categories: philosophy
---

[“May we live long and die out”](http://vhemt.org/)

<cut/>

**Design**: 5 out of 5 for eye-pleasing undesign 90s look&feel

**Technical**: 4 out of 5 for smooth work without scripting, cookies and
third-party stuff. Still 4 due to presence of analytics, external cookies and
lack of encryption.

**Content**: 5 out of 5 for completely serious and still humorous tackling of
such an important matter (of course such rating does not automatically mean i
endorse everything written there)

**Metascore**: gold

Commentary
----------

This is truly a golden page of internets, but apart from tons of lulz (even if
bitter or spiteful for some) it brings to the reader, to me it also implies a
question: is it right to do the right thing for the wrong cause?

Also, yet another incentive to finally draw that comic i've been meaning to draw
for a few weeks now.

Also, yet another fun example of consequentialist woes (i don't imply that many
supporters have such woes (although they might), but many in opposition
certainly do).

And yeah, *finally* i found (albeit accidentally, i promise!) someone else who
found the only true solution to "repugnant conclusion". Even if not necessarily
for a good reason. But i suppose it's a good starting point for further
research.

Wait, did you expect me to write a review about it? That's not how things are
done here.

Quotes
------

If i still haven't convinced you that seriously checking out that site is worth
your time, here are some quotes to spark your interest:

- "Beware of dogmas. We speak with our own voices."

- "We can achieve more by promoting generosity, awareness, and freedom than we
  can by vainly kicking at a buttless foe."

- "The above could be called the Terrorist Human Extermination Movement (THEM),
  but that’s labeling and encourages a “Them or Us” attitude."

- "We ingest so much poison that meat from our bones wouldn’t meet government
  standards for pork."

Well, i could choose even better ones, but i'm bored. This surely is enough for
today.
