---
layout: post
title: "afterthoughts"
date: 2022-07-30 12:24:48
categories: misc
---

then the war started , all surroundings got tense ; only me sitting
every day at home was terribly wrong — so i felt , somehow anxious ,
not being able to rest no matter what . let my eye get red and hair
gray — i wanted to work , to be useful , those were my feelings .

<cut/>

i wanted to play my part putting this war to end or preventing another
one from happening . i thought — and i still think that ever more
clearly, — this war was made possible by enormous unprecedented
informational campaign , mass mind manipulation that rare dystopian
sci-fi author could have predicted . however , one thing has changed
since then : i'm no longer under delusion that simply making truth
accessible is enough

that was my idea — building easy to access platform uncontrolled
(impossible to control by design) by any malicious government or
non-government actors that would allow everyone to access truthful
information and using their brain power they would be able to pick
truth amongst obvious fakes and lies . but while i still believe
humanity needs uncensorable free for all platform , now more than ever
— my further experience shows that it's not going to be enough . what
we face is a new kind of post-orwellian propaganda that at its core
undermines the very idea of critical thinking , whilst at the same
time [claims "critical thinking" to themselves][clang] — somehow
managing to do that effectively . we can't solve that purely on
technical level .

centralized attempts at that — marking , censoring and otherwise
dis-recommending fakes — not only are ineffective in re-convincing
already indoctrinated people , but actually famously effective at
creating and fortifying "bubbles" . even the harshest righteous
censorship is only ever going to make resistance to it dumber , but
not extinct — especially not when there's a whole rogue state with its
own censorship . famously multiple states/state agglomerates competing
for world domination — ever so slowly or ever so fast — each step on a
slippery slope to totalitarian Machiavellianism . so that doesn't work
.

truly decentralized attempts are not as popular yet to cast final
decision , but uncontrolled semi-decentralized solutions (like
unmoderated social networks/group messengers) are already effectively
used at spreading the aforementioned propaganda , which really isn't
as much of a classical propaganda as it is self-propelling meme (in
original , barely remembered sense of the word) , a virus . would
creating an environment that allows unlimited spread of this virus
really solve the problem ?

`unlikely`

and yet we must make the environment because no benevolent censorship
can stay benevolent forever . but we must also find the way to fight
the virus inside this environment — this particular virus amongst many
others , less directly harmful ones . and since we're using this
biology metaphor anyway , lets take it lessons from biology on how to
fight viruses . two effectively translatable strategies come to
mind : gaining immunity by inoculation ; and creating competing , more
aggressively propagating , but less dangerous strain of virus .

translating back to reality of (mis)information spread and
manipulation : we either have to educate people to detect manipulation
before they are first exposed to it ; or we have to manipulate people
into liking and reposting cute cat pictures instead of liking and
reposting war . these two approaches seem to contradict each other ,
but if we set the contradiction aside , we can see that that's how
things are already happening in society world wide . "elite" in some
loose sense of the word gets education , masses get to like kittens .

but then again , what went wrong in the system to allow this atrocious
war to happen and continue happening as i write this ? maybe it is
that contradiction , that narrow crack in the system where people get
bored with doge emoticons and animated rewards , where they think they
are smarter than that , but never got to be picked up by any
educational institution (in a broad sense) to actually be smarter than
that ?

our lives are inevitably duller than fiction . there are no film cuts
, no cadence , not that much of strong emotions — most strong emotions
are being erased from mainstream by either ban (of violent ones) or
endless looped repetition (play a song a hundred times because you can
and it doesn't evoke the same feelings any longer) . all of this leads
unhappy people to get that margin dose of extreme — be it harmless
achievement of most likes on cringy video stream or pure violence . in
the pre-war era that violence was mostly being manifested in real
world by occasional "unexplainable" "crazy" "maniac" killers or
rapists or otherwise singular violent people .

and i'm not writing this to pardon institutionalized violence of
police and various armed bands colloquially known as armies around the
world — it was and is a part of the puzzle . genocide of kurds and
armenians was happening just a five minutes ago — even if on a lesser
scale than a century before , and was done by a well-known "reputable"
nato member state . oppression and genocide of uyghurs by a less
reputable but still recognized prc was by and large ignored as well
. but however historians , i'm sure , will put that under "world war
iii" umbrella , we in the relative comforts of "western" civilization
could blissfully ignore the world growing mad .

but back to the main topic — people want ever stronger emotions or the
comfort of knowing better life is impossible . the war (un)declared by
putin and supported by hard to count but sizeable amount of russian
population gives people a choice of either . people in russia who've
been successfully indoctrinated by the aforementioned virus , have a
choice of either experiencing strong violent righteous emotions of
going to war (physically or — as cowardly majority chooses it — in
spirit), or at least comfort of "knowing" that life is shit everywhere
because famously "everybody lies" and no heaven on earth is ever to be
made .

does this still sound crazy and unbelievable to you ? i'll tell you :
it still shocks me when i'm actually witnessing it . but i get the
solace in knowing where all this is coming from .

`human nature`

`human weakness`

`human condition`

call it as you like , you carry a part of it too and chances are
you'll never notice if you ever cross that threshold of becoming a
monster

[clang]: https://caryoscelus.github.io/misc/2018/10/25/taking-over.html
