---
layout: post
title: "hit by a bus factor"
date: 2022-05-13 00:30:00
categories: misc
---

i haven't been literally hit by a bus . even my somewhat deteriorated
health has been occasionally showing signs of improvements , too . and
yet the pseudo-conspiring strings of events made me come up with this
title for what otherwise would have been a regular update on my coding
or music projects

<cut/>

it's too late to ponder when it started and too personal for this log
style to go into all the details . but it has been going on for a
while , recently culminating in my laptop breakdown . for a few days
until i recovered at least some data (i still hope that backups will
pay off and i get all of it , but it'll take time to figure if they
didn't burn too) and had been able to use borrowed laptop for a little
while , i was feeling like all of my life (as caryoscelus) has
instantly vanished . this feeling is gone , but i'm still unable to do
my usual things – producing music on computer , comfortably hacking
code , using highly tuned key combinations to navigate my digital
workspace .

i still have to go and code and write to strangers around 0net 'cause
i feel that project has potential to be one of the most important tech
things that exist today if only we manage to salvage it (something i
shouldn't have trusted with original dev , something i definitely
can't trust a self-proclaimed heir – nor did i see anything resembling
long-term plan from them) . and then there's tons to do with this
legacy codebase that i'm planning to throw away sooner than later ,
and i have to finance my outside world needs (which can easily
contradict doing what's right about our digital future) , and i have
to keep sanity across all of this .

today – or yesterday , depending on your timezone or how you count –
i've managed to regain a significant part of my sanity thanks to my
dear friend , with whom we recorded (live – no real post-processing am
i going to be able to do now) an exciting experimental album which i'm
going to be posting all over your feeds soon .

that bit of sanity makes me able to write this post – one that i can't
even properly put onto my favourite 0net – because my private keys are
still out of reach . on that note i intended to mention for my 0net
readers that both zca@zeroid.bit (14BdGcz6puat2Q8GWqgRMC4cSRsxCZJhws)
and caryo@zeroid.bit (12uNTY1Fc9V9p7fy394b3bYQ5ykN2Rmp2r) are indeed
my (unofficial , as amount of protection is less than perfect)
accounts .

back to title – none of the events – not even meaningless bloodshed
that can easily reach me directly or indirectly – would probably get
me into the little productive and sorrid state should only my bus
factor had been higher . that is the lesson i'm taking from this ,
hopefully one i can still use and one someone else will find
compelling .

i'm not saying goodbye – you won't get rid of me that easily – and in
fact i intend to only post more now that the shockwaves have settled
somewhat – but i should warn you that i may be disappearing for some
periods of time until everything is sorted . and finally i apologize
to everyone who counted on me being more of myself and especially
the `oui themselves` members
