---
layout: post
title: "landscape of intricate ramblings"
date: 2022-08-24 18:42:00
categories: music
---

i made a new album recently and before there's any more recordings
that i'll be uploading soon , i want to make a post about it . the
whole thing was recorded during several nights when i could neither
sleep nor do anything otherwise useful

<img src="https://f4.bcbits.com/img/a3706219598_16.jpg"/>

you can find the album at [badcamp](https://caryoscelus.bandcamp.com/album/landscape-of-intricate-ramblings)
as well as on [0net](http://127.0.0.1:43110/1FiHm91tcDdjkiGkHZH2xoMc7Qmzrh8sv3/landscape-of-intricate-ramblings/)
(please use up-to-date [zeronet-conservancy](https://github.com/zeronet-conservancy/zeronet-conservancy) fork!)

<cut/>

unlike many of my recordings that take a long time to gather the
tracks for and arrange them in the right order or one-two track kind
of an album , i've recorded this one in the same order that is
intended for playing , but there's little of a specific storytelling
reason that the order had to be like this . but it simplifies the
storytelling of this post cause i can go through the tracks one by one

everything started with me testing my newly rebuilt (still in the
process of working on the neck) electric defretted guitar . i recorded
test sounds of a guitar with three strings in no tuning and i would
have left the file as is till better times if not for my friend who
liked it and encouraged me to record more

so i went and did . next track i took two guitars and played layer
over layer with some effect automation added on top (just like the
first and most of the tracks , it's made in ardour)

while recording next track , i had a technical issue of sorts that i
never figured out , but which made a part of texture of the track that
made me think of fields of artificial metallic plants

next track i fixed whatever was the issue and tried to make even more
meditative and slow piece ; it also turned out to be kinda grim , but
also inducing sense of wonder — at least for me

the beginning of virtual "B side" is marked by live sound of sandgoamb
(full track name would take too much space), the only track that is
entirely acoustic (even though played on electric guitar — it was
literally unplugged) . one of the major reference for this track for
me was sokpb avabodha . one intuitively thinks that random live solo
improvisation , especially on an instrument not made for the task , is
not something worthy of interest . and this track specifically tries
to defeat that expectation by trying to be cinematic

next track with its wargan-like guitar sounds was largely meant to be
meditative , but as the title implies , it couldn't go far enough in
that direction . some time after somewhat slow and making sense
ambient beginning , it goes into two guitars talking to each other ,
saying weird things over the still present background reminding of
initial goal to mediate and relax . by the end guitars go back to
being rhythmic and playing nicely with each other , but the moment to
dive into is lost

as its title implies , i would rather be having a perfect dream
instead of recording that track , but instead only ghosts of it were
around me that night . this track is based on live unplugged recording
(in audacity) that was later on paulstretched to really shine
. ironically this track is perhaps closest one to being trans-inducing
, though it never was planned as such

and finally after all that spookiness of many of the previous tracks ,
it was time to whistle it away , however abruptly that ended the
previous flow . this one was recorded in audacity unplugged , but then
processed in ardour with some plugin automation , making otherwise
somewhat flat and repetitive track more interesting

