---
layout: post
title: "bad news"
date: 2022-02-24 18:00:18
categories: misc
---

late evening tomorrow i was wrapping up my latest album release and thought i'd
write up a post about it here first thing in the morning. but what i have woken
up to was a new world of war — war of unprecedented scale of aggression in a
peaceful region. i'm still at loss what to say, but regardless of horrors of the
world i gotta do what i gotta do.

<cut/>

i condemn violent actions of putin's regime. i ask every russian soldier out
there to do what's right: stop shooting and go home. i wish for peace to return
to ukraine and my beloved city of kyiv.

there's not so much i can do to help stop the war, but i'm gonna try harder in
doing those bits that i can. it's a long shot, but in order to prevent these
things from happening in the future, we need to make sure no country is poisoned
with propaganda and left without access to information. it's still a little bit
early to disclose my work in that direction (besides my work on
[zeronet-conservancy](https://github.com/zeronet-conservancy/zeronet-conservancy/)), but the time is closing in.

meanwhile, i still released that album i wanted to write you about. as usual,
it's available on
[0net](http://127.0.0.1:43110/1FiHm91tcDdjkiGkHZH2xoMc7Qmzrh8sv3/nois-tar/) and
[badcamp](https://caryoscelus.bandcamp.com/album/nois-tar). the world isn't over
just yet so if you're into melodic & rhytmic noise music, give it a listen.

that's all for now. thanks for tuning in these hard times (or, if you're reading
this in a peaceful future, cheers)
