---
layout: post
title: "on the future of 0net (chorus)"
date: 2025-02-28 06:06:12
categories: 0net
---

another one of those posts that i'm not sure will be published
immediately after i finish writing it. not because of any
self-censorship or even sheer laziness, but because of extreme
thinness and fragility of my connection. this is where 0net was
supposed to shine — and i guess it does, as much as it can be said to
shine at all.

<cut/>

i feel its usefulness in these moments, and yet not busying myself
developing it right here right now. ironically, it's hard to develop
networking app without a network that would support you with all the
docs and libs in the world. so lets talk a bit about it in stead.

the big turn that i've been announcing much earlier than it ended up
being merited, and yet now it's already in code. mostly. what lies
beyond is a bit raw polishing in UI/control department and then bumpy
road of adoption amongst the bravest.

people keep telling me that web of trust is not going to work. that
network that isn't monetized, isn't built on economy is futile
project. these are no longer days when i could have been either
motivated to prove them wrong, nor de-motivated by the depressive
possibility of reality of their words. i am no longer here, nor there.

"we can't control outcomes of our actions, can't control anything,
really— so why, why waste time on stuff that doesn't reward you (in
whatever way) through its process rather than mere result?"

or, put in other words, if you really want to achieve something, make
it fun. can we make `0net-conservancy/riza` development fun?

- `znapi` (in development) wraps around 0net api and along with debug
  mode allows to develop 0net pages just like you would any normal web
  project

- built-in debugging options (such as duct-taped `ipython` console)
  could make core dev cycle faster, but really luck proper usability
  for real impact (yet)

- making 0net core python package could help with adoption and
  shipment

- shipment pipeline for many platforms itself can boost fun of
  developing, because you'd know people can use new features/see new
  bugs/fixes right away

yadayada... but the most important thing — no, it's not perseverance,
i've learned the hard way — it's taking care of yourself. when you
fail to do that you either fail at the task at hand, or start
compensating, and end up failing anyway.

the (never-)promised dream of sizable part of humanity — to overcome
bodily limitations — it's not here yet. don't waste yourself in a rat
race to achieve this holy grail — wasn't that the message all along?

but i digress.. what's next for 0net? a lightly stressing test on
whether we can rebuild it as common protocol for independent, but
inter-connected, disbanded, but able to come together groups of
people.

web should neither be a dead forest through which you can go on solo
trips, nor should it be an overly-aggressive pack of mail pigeons (you
know how the weaker animals are the less protective social instincts
(`*`) they have? it's a theory, anyways). web is first and foremost
"friends that we made along the way" and should be designed with that
in mind. it *should* be possible to solo-trip through peculiar
architecture built by others, but it should also accommodate groups of
people without pigeons tearing apart all-too-transparent letters to
hunt for human weakness.

yeah, making that reality is much harder than it may sound to naïve
time-traveler from the 1980s; without controlling our own devices, how
can we aspire to control the network made out of these very devices?

indeed, we can't. can't expect full reliability of all the nodes, full
implementation of all the goals. but what are humans if not extremely
robust processes built out of extremely fragile components? 'nature'
might be hard to reproduce, but then.. not really. famous `game of
life` lives on a binary 2d grid and four (depending on how you count)
rules. neural networks are *just* matrix manipulations spiced with a
bit (`**`) of non-linearity. but lets save the discussion of NNs and
the prospects of AI or AI-like behaviour for another post.

what we have now? it's more fun to code sound- or game- related stuff
because of more immediate results; it's more fun to hang out with real
people i know and who are actually there than with rare abstract
strangers on 0net. solution? host real people, games and music
there. can we get there? lets sea [fin]

(`*`): i'm not a fan of the word, but hopefully you my readers won't
take it too literally.

(`**`): for how much "a bit" is enough, see [fun video here][ieee]

[ieee]: https://youtube.com/watch?v=Ae9EKCyI1xu
